## Overview
Volumes are persistent data stores for containers, created and managed by Docker. You can create a volume explicitly using the `docker volume create` command, or Docker can create a volume during container or service creation.

When you create a volume, it's stored within a directory on the Docker host. When you mount the volume into a container, this directory is what's mounted into the container. This is similar to the way that [[Bind mount|bind mounts]] work, except that volumes are managed by Docker and are isolated from the core functionality of the host machine.

Volumes are the preferred mechanism for persisting data generated by and used by Docker containers. While bind mounts are dependent on the directory structure and OS of the host machine, volumes are completely managed by Docker. Volumes are often a better choice than writing data directly to a container, because a volume doesn't increase the size of the containers using it.

A volume's contents exist outside the lifecycle of a given container. When a container is destroyed, the writable layer is destroyed with it. Using a volume ensures that the data is persisted even if the container using it is removed.

A given volume can be mounted into multiple containers simultaneously. When no running container is using a volume, the volume is still available to Docker and isn't removed automatically. You can remove unused volumes using `docker volume prune`.
## Commands
To mount a volume with the `docker run` command, you can use either the `--mount` or `--volume` flag.
```Shell
docker run --mount type=volume,src=<volume-name>,dst=<mount-path>
docker run --volume <volume-name>:<mount-path>
```
## Documentation
- [Volumes](https://docs.docker.com/engine/storage/volumes/)